# thread-based-file-check

This project checks the bad phrases from a text file and compares it to three separate large text files. If a text file does contain one of the bad phrases, it is put on a separate moderation list to notify the user. The serial version of this program starts off by creating an ArrayList which contains the path to each text file to be checked. Then, an ArrayList is created out of the bad phrases (these bad phrases were chosen by me before execution of the program). The nested for loop checks each file with each individual word and counts the number of each word in the text file. There is a count variable for each individual word, meaning that a total of each bad phrase can be output at the very end. The if statement nested within the for loops is the moderation check. If the fileWorkSerial version returns a nonzero number, it should be put on the moderation list because it contains a bad phrase. The serial version of the code has a timed version to determine how long it takes to execute this computation. The fileWorkSerial() method simply checks the text files for each bad phrase. 

The synchronous version of this code (i.e. concurrent) is much more efficient. Instead of running through the serial method, a new Thread is launched which goes off and performs this task. In this case, I passed the fileNames ArrayList and badPhrases ArrayList to a separate class called Check which implements the Runnable interface. By doing this, the thread can go execute the file computations while the main thread continues to execute. In this case, there is only one thread being launched to run the file work, but there could be other situations where multiple threads are launched. An artificial delay was added in to the thread so the total time for this approach was displayed properly. 
